

---OFF DIALOGUE DUMP---

This page contains all of the dialogue in Off. This will only include overworld
dialogue, not interface text or item names. I will be cutting out a few
repetitive things that are almost identical to each other, such as the Post
Office elevators. [Note: Near the end of Zone 1 I decided to stop putting stuff
in brackets, so it'll just be the text from then on.]

Caution - It is possible that certain scenes in this game may prove shocking to
an unwarned public. Or maybe not... (The soundtrack and sound effects of Off,
created by Alias Conrad Coldwood, are an important part of the game; it would be
a shame to play without them.) Your name is [entered name]. Correct? Alright.
Welcome, [entered name]. You have been assigned to a being called "The Batter".
The Batter is on a mission. Be sure that it's accomplished. We will let you both
out in zone 0. Good luck. For more information, find the one called "The Judge".
To move my body, use the arrow keys on your keyboard. To interact with the
environment, use the space bar or the enter key.
...That didn't start well...
...The... The bird...He left, too...
Enter The Room ? [If No Aquarius Card]: It's impossible to enter. You need an
adequate Zodiac card.
Enter zone 1 ? [If No Leo Card]: It's impossible to enter. You need an adequate
Zodiac card.
Enter zone 1 ? [If No Leo Card]: It's impossible to enter. You need the adequate
Zodiac card.
Enter zone 3 ? [If No Pisces Card]: It's impossible to enter. You need an
adequate Zodiac card.
Enter zone 2 ? [If No Cancer Card]: It's impossible to enter. You need an
adequate Zodiac card.
Enter zone 0 ?
There cannot be any living beings in zone 0; hence, I deduce that you are a pure
figment of my imagination. Nevertheless, I will introduce myself. I am the
Judge, and I am aching to know your name, dear illusory interlocutor. I'm the
Batter. I've been entrusted with a sacred mission. It is a pleasure, although it
was not the body I was addressing, but the soul that it harbours. What is your
name, controller? [If Player Gender Is 1]: Her name is [entered name]. She can't
talk to us. However, she can see and hear everything. [If Player Gender Is 2]:
Their name is [entered name]. They can't talk to us. However, they can see and
hear everything. [If Player Gender Is 3]: His name is [entered name]. He can't
talk to us. However, he can see and hear everything. Even though you too are but
an imaginary spectre in my eyes, let it be said that I am delighted to meet you
as well, dear [entered name]. I believe we need your help. Many people are in
need of my services, you know. Everybody loves cats. We rub ourselves against
their legs and purr in a most insistent manner. They adore that. I'm not talking
about that kind of help. I see - but what sort of service could I offer to an
ectoplasmic entity? I have a sacred mission to fulfill. I must purify the world.
There is no objective more laudable than yours. I accept to serve you as a guide
through this area, if it is of any help to you. Thanks.
I can't see the inside very well.
A Luck ticket has been found.
It's impossible to get around this obstacle.
A piece of Silver flesh has been found.
Allow me to inform you that I find you quite tangible for a phantasmagorial
being. Might you in fact be a person of flesh and blood? I think so. Then I was
mistaken from the beginning, and you did not even interrupt me in my fanciful
phantasms... This is relatively bizarre, I must say, for you are the first
living being I was given to encounter in this place. I had, incidentally,
concluded that zone 0 was an empty land. It is all too obvious that I was led
astray. However, there exist other zones, and in those territories, hostile
individuals might attack you most violently. Your sacred mission will likely
lead you into these lands. Would you like me to acquaint you with the art of
violent confrontation? Combat tutorial? [Yes/No] [Yes]: From now on you will be
ready to dispose of all impure obstacles that dare appear in your luminous
mission's way. Well, supposing your intelligence is on the same level with your
undeniable capability of dealing bat blows to an innocent cat. Be it as it may,
your training has not reached its end yet. Let me ask you to follow me, if you
still want me as your guide. [No]: No tutorial, are you certain? [Yes/No] [Yes]:
So you are pretending to know how to handle the bat with virtuosity without even
needing my wise pieces of advice. I hope for you that this statement is more
than just hot air meant to impress me, for this way, you would be taking a great
risk. But I will assume that such is not the case, and that you are truly the
fighter of importance you claim to be. Be it as it may, your training has not
reached its end yet. Let me ask you to follow me, if you still want me as your
guide. 
Quite peculiar.
Ah, yes, to pass through, it will be necessary to use your cerebral organ
correctly. You know, the one bathing flabbily in your cranium. I think that
these floating blocks correspond, in some way or another, to the symbols you can
see on the wall.
I think the weather's nice outside.
Is there a problem, o dear charming hero? I cannot do everything in your place,
I am not your genitor, after all...Nonetheless, may I perhaps dare suggest you
try to activate some of these floating blocks more than once, if so required? So
hurry, solve me this intriguing obstacle, and post-haste, if you please. I wish
to rejoin the ground floor as soon as possible. 
crunch nom nom crunch
Ahaha, finally, after all that effort, the long awaited reward makes its
entrance to the scene!
He he he, why yes, I'm here as well. On the other hand, it's been a while since
I've seen Pablo around here.
It's been some time now since I've seen Pablo... I hope he's doing well.
...I guess it's better like that. [If Have 5 Grand Items]: ...But... You have
the five elements? If you'd like, I'll exchange them for an incredibly rare
item! [Okay!/I'd like to buy something.] [Okay!]: He he he, excellent! The
choice is yours: I have in my possession the Ashley Bat, the ultimate offensive
item in the game, or, well... The Aries-card, which is, although I don't know
what it's used for, completely unique as well! So, which do you choose? [Ashley
Bat/Aries-card/Never mind]: So you want the Ashley Bat, for sure? [Yes/No]
[Yes]: Ahaha, brilliant! Here's your new treasure, use it wisely. The Ashley Bat
has been found. [Aries-card]: So, the Aries-card is your decision? [Yes/No]
[Yes]: Ahaha, splendid! Here's your new treasure, use it wisely. The Aries-Card
has been found. [I'd like to buy something.]: Alright, as you wish. [If Not 5
Grand Items]: ...
It's a pleasure doing business with you.
Go on, I invite you to attempt using the floating cube behind you.
Here we have an accessory that will prove especially useful to your purifying
quest, dear enlightened student and sportive friend. It is a cube, floating in
the air, as you have probably noticed. Nevertheless, you will be able to
differentiate it from its ilk by the contrast of its clashing colours,
assaulting your gaze with bad taste and defying any sensible course of plastic
arts. Do not judge it too quickly, however, for despite its criticisable
appearance, this red cube is of undeniable use. Aside from restoring the
entirety of your health and competence points, it is capable of saving your
progress and sending you to the nothingness. The nothingness is a place of
transition outside of space itself, where you can travel from one point to
another at the speed of light. I now invite you to try for yourself, in order to
discover locations more populous than this deserted land. Open your wings, my
dear companion, and fly towards the following zones without hesitation! Your
only enemy is the fear that will grab you. Okay. Do not worry yourself; I too
travel much between the different zones of the world. Perhaps, we will come to
meet again. Ah, by the by, take this. This item of a curious name will be the
key that shall permit you to enter zone 1. Have I clarified that you can, at any
moment, consult your inventory and characteristics by pressing the Esc key? The
Leo-card has been found.
Health points and competence points completely restored. [Save game/Return to
the nothingness/Cancel] [Return to the nothingness]: Back to the nothingness?
...I'm ignoring...Why all is so distressing. I'm never hungry. :-) Think of
something beautiful really hard, and maybe you will see it tomorrow. Who are
you? Like for example a beautiful day. With a huge ducky. A very distressing
one. What are you doing here? Let us not lose any time to useless introductions.
Let's dance together, my dearest friend. :-)
I'm feeling way too cold...I didn't like that dance......my dearest friend. :-(
...I think the huge, frightening ducky has won this round. Say goodbye to
Zacharie for me.
She's dead.
Tramway number 1 is a very useful means of transport to get to the different
areas of zone 1.
Please select your destination... 
If you are reading this, then that means you have the power of noclip. Help
Dismal find his fruit cup. That is all.
Tramway number 2 hasn't been coming for a long time...
Um... You are here in the smoke mines of Damien, in the south of zone number 1.
Here, we send labourers into deep tunnels to unearth metal from the ground,
freeing trapped smoke from the depths. Using various tools, we put some of it
into bottles, which the Queen sends to the other zones. The rest of it flows
free and forms the air that our lungs inhale and exhale... Uh... So we can live.
It's an essential element, the first among the four elements. Because without
smoke, people would have nothing to breathe.
What are you doing here? Are you part of the mine inspection personnel?
Access to the smoke mines is prohibited to all unauthorised personnel.
Uh... there we are. And so... Well... uh... How do I put this? Where are the
impures? Uh... yes, there we go. There are many spectres in the mines, and they
are getting more and more aggressive. But uh, in fact, it would be good if you
wouldn't go there. Because... The regulations forbid access to the smoke mines
for visitors. So, uh, here's what we're going to do. There's an annex tunnel
that nobody ever goes to. But a miner went in there some time ago... And he saw
something strange, he said. Nothing like the usual. So, I thought, maybe that's
the leader of the spectres. Uh... so, there we are. If you accept, you'll go
into the annex mine and kill the leader of the spectres... Then, the spectres
will disappear, and we can work properly again. There we go, there we, uh... do
you have any questions? No. Ah. Great. Impeccable. The tunnel is right down
there. Me, I will wait for you here.
Uh, well, do you understand? You go down into the annex tunnel and kill the
leader of the spectres. This way, after you're done, we can work again. That
would be great.
Ah, you've returned! So, have you killed the... uh... the leader of the
spectres? No. It wasn't there. Oh... oh? Really? I... Bugger. Crap. I... Well,
then uh... I believe that I'll have to let you enter into the main gorges, then.
But uhm... the regulations are against it. Alright uh... I.... I suppose this is
a very special case, as stated in paragraph five. So, uh... Good, well, the main
mines are on the right. There.
Uh... Will you find the leader of the spectres? Well... It would be great if
that was possible... Well... yes... It would be great.
Uhm... Uh... A visitor? ... I...  Uhm... Welcome to the smoke mines. Uh... may I
know who you are? Are you an inspector? No. I'm the Batter. I've come to
exterminate the impure spirits. The... Batter... The... impure spirits? Are you
some sort of... prophet? Or perhaps a man of belief? Yeah. Something like that.
I... Who sent you? Nobody. I'm being led by [entered name]. [If Gender Is 1]:
Ah. I don't know her. She must be a member of the superior personnel... [If
Gender Is 2]: Ah. I don't know them. They must be a member of the superior
personnel... [If Gender Is 3]: Ah. I don't know him. He must be a member of the
superior personnel... In any case that's good. That means our requests have been
approved... Come, I'm going to explain your task...
There are phantoms down there... They keep us from working properly. But this is
my break time, anyway.
A Joker has been found.
Soon, I might be promoted. I'd be able to do surveillance in Alma. I'm anxious
for that to happen.
[If Gender Is 1]: Well well, who do we have here? Is that not [entered name] and
her charming jumping jack, the Batter? [If Gender Is 2]: Well well, who do we
have here? Is that not [entered name] and their charming jumping jack, the
Batter? [If Gender Is 3]: Well well, who do we have here? Is that not [entered
name] and his charming jumping jack, the Batter? Might you be the specters'
leader? Aha, no no, certainly not. I am only passing through, not unlike the
smoke which is being extracted from this pale and metallic place. However, I
believe I know where the one you take for an ectoplasm can be found. To tell the
truth, I am perplexed. I think it is one of those peculiar things called a
spherical Add-On. I have very well tried to appropriate it, but the operation
has systematically failed. But I am thinking... Maybe you, one who is not of
physical matter, will perhaps succeed in binding this spiritual entity to yours.
[If Switch 314 Is On]: Well well, who do we have here? Is that not [entered
name] and their picturesque jumping jack, the Batter? [Else]: Well well, who do
we have here? Is that not [entered name] and his picturesque jumping jack, the
Batter? Are you the specters' leader? Aha, no no, certainly not. I am only
passing through, not unlike the smoke which is being extracted from this pale
and metallic place. However, I believe I know where the one you are taking for
an ectoplasm can be found. To tell the truth, I am perplexed. I think it is one
of those peculiar objects called a spherical Add-On. I have very well tried to
appropriate it, but the operation has systematically failed. But I am
thinking... Maybe you, one who is not of physical matter, will perhaps succeed
in binding this spiritual entity to yours. 
I invite you to attempt retrieval of this "spherical Add-on", moving up and down
just behind my hairy back.
There is nothing here; this is the sort of spot that I am particularly fond of.
What you seek is certainly located elsewhere.
Add-On Alpha has joined you. What an exceptionally intriguing phenomenon... I
must admit that I remain perplexed by this unexpected, metaphysical reaction.
Fair enough. Since it has decided to accompany you, I know only to advise you to
make the best possible use of it. Got it. The leader of the specters isn't here?
Apologies, but I fear I have to respond in the negative. This Add-On aside, I
have not crossed paths with a single moving soul in this place.
The lamps don't always work in the endmost corridors. And since everything looks
the same around here, it's easy to get lost.
There are phantoms in all the tunnels. Be careful, sir. And besides... Who has
let you enter here? Normally, the regulations prohibit external visitors...
You've come to eliminate the spectres? That's good news.
Show yourselves, corrupted children! I'm the voice of forgiveness that'll
eliminate your ill-fated forms. ... Prepare yourselves to receive my judgement.
... This "Add-On" is fighting by my side......That's useful. Let's purify the
other galleries.
Health points and competence points completely restored. (the yellow blocks
don't allow you to return to the nothingness.)
This block prevents the access to the deeper bowels.
There's a door. But it seems to be locked from the inside.
There's a strange switch on this lamp... [Activate/Don't touch it] [Activate]: A
door opened.
There door's already open.
I'm...  I'm working... I'm being productive...
Two pieces of Belial's meat have been found.
The regulations prohibit outside visitors in the main galleries! Get out!
Why have you opened the door? The spectres are going to attack us!! Leave! Leave
us right now!
We're safe here... But we'll have to attempt to leave once we're out of meat.
Three pieces of Belial's meat have been found.
A Virgo-orb has been found.
A Scorpio-orb has been found.
A Capricorn-orb has been found.
A Libra-orb has been found.
A Gemini-orb has been found.
A Taurus-orb has been found.
They say that names of the metro stations coincide with the names of important
people of the past.
I have trouble imagining that things weren't always the way they are now...
This block prevents access to the eastern bowels.
Uhm... You are here at the metal farmsteads of Pentel, in the east of zone 1.
Our work consists of cutting livestock in two and extracting the metallic rocks
contained within the cadavers. All the metal of poor quality is discarded,
forming the ground we walk on. The rest is purified and processed to create
objects. A part of it is also put into crates and sent to the other zones, so
they have objects and soil as well, I suppose... It's an essential element, the
first among the four elements. Because without metal, people would have nothing
to walk on, and they would sink and drown.
Wh... What? Did you come from the smoke mines? Yes. But... But... It's full of
spectres in there... Yes. Are you a spectre? No. Then who are you? Have you been
sent by the Queen? Or by Dedan? No. But... But... But... You still know how to
fight the spectres? You... You could destroy them? Yes. Oh. That... That would
be great... There... There are... uh... spectres in the large cowsheds.
Cowsheds? Ah... uh... yes...
There. And so, there are spectres in the large cowsheds... I must purify the
mines first. Ah... Yes, but the cowsheds aren't that big... And uh... It would
be good if you took care of them fast, because the Queen's inspector is going to
arrive at any moment... So... Please, could you do the cowsheds first? ...
Alright. Haha! Great! Thank you, thank you so much! The cowsheds are over there,
to the right... They aren't big at all, you'll see; it's going to be done super
quickly. The barns are to the right... Thank you very much for your help.
Impossible to get around this obstacle.
Once you've extracted everything from the carcass, you slice it up into pieces
and eat the meat.
Extracting scraps of metal from cows isn't what I prefer. But if I do my job
well, maybe I'll be transferred to Alma...
It's half of a cow.
I prefer working here over the smoke mines. At least you benefit from the
outside air.
One shouldn't get attached to animals... Once you are, it gets difficult to put
your hands inside.
I don't think I want to go that way.
I... I... I... I am really... Quiet, you pitiful bastard. No... I... Yes... Has
it been long since he went inside? I... I don't know... No, of course, you know
nothing. I should have known. He... He will eliminate... The spectres... And how
does he think himself capable of destroying those stupid phantoms? He thinks
himself better than you, better than the Queen! No... No, I don't think that...
Shut it. I didn't ask for your opinion. You all think you're more intelligent
than the others. But you are all the same. In any case, this is hardly
important. The phantoms will erase that conceited individual. I... Ah? You...
You think he won't... Of course not. Nobody here is capable of fighting the
phantoms, apart from the Queen's officers. If only you listened to me more
often, you wouldn't keep making fools of yourselves. But... But then who...
Who's going to destroy the phantoms? I could have done it. But you don't deserve
it. Too bad for you, you'll just have to take care of your problems yourselves.
I... I... No... P-... Please... I'm leaving now. I'm returning to Alma, at least
the people there are polite. They don't constantly cut you off. Pl-... Please...
Don't... Goodbye. Get out of my sight. Don't... No... I.... I beg of you, get
the fuck out of my way right this instant, if you want to keep your position. 
Who was that person? You... You're alive? Yes. And... And the spectres? The
cowshed has been purified. That... You... You must be very lucky. Who was that
person? That... That was Dedan. He's the Queen's inspector. You mean specter.
...... No... The Queen wouldn't employ a spectre. He can't be one. But he's
evil. I must destroy him. No... No... Don't do that. He's an envoy of the Queen.
I... I ... Uh... You had better go complete your work in the smoke mines... ...
P-Please...... In any case, he's in Alma. No one can go there without proper
authorisation. So... Please... Return to the smoke mines... Alright.
G... Go back to the mines, please.
Health points and competence points completely restored.
These balls are heaps of processed metal, which are going to be sent to other
zones. They're, uh... metallic.
It's important to pay close attention to the nutrition of the animals if you
want high-quality metal.
You're going to the destroy the spectres? Hurry up, we're expecting the Queen's
inspector at any moment...
[If Variable 18 Is Not 0 And Is 1]: There is one spectre left in the cowshed.
[Else]: There are [Variable 18] spectres left in the cowshed.
[If Variable 18 Is 0]: The cowshed has been purified. [If Variable 18 Is Not 0
And Is 1]: There is one spectre left in the cowshed. [Else]: There are [Variable
18] spectres left in the cowshed.
Teleport back to the cowshed's entrance?
Two Luck tickets have been found.
The switch is currently ON [Flip the switch/Do Nothing] [Flip the switch]: The
switch is now OFF
The switch is currently OFF [Flip the switch/Do Nothing] [Flip the switch]: The
switch is now ON
This barrier blocks the way to this tunnel.
A piece of Abaddon's meat has been found.
The characters are starting to pile up, aren't they? Pardon? What I'm saying is
that the average player doesn't need all these complicated and tedious
dialogues. There should be more action and fewer questions. Who are you? I'm
Zacharie, the traditional items merchant that's necessary to every video game.
I'll often find myself in places you're going to visit before you. But enough
talk. I'm not one of those protagonists you have to listen to for hours. So, why
not let me see the color of your credits.
The Queen's general has an office here... But his real house is in Alma...
...??? What... How... Where did you come from? I come from the smoke mines.
But... How... What? But... but that's impossible ... Not a single lamp works in
there, you... you can't... Faith guides my steps. F-... Faith? My mission is to
purify the mines. But it'd seem that the phantoms are particularly numerous.
The... The spectres... Where am I here? Uhm... uh...
But... But... You hunt the spectres? Really? Yes. I'm purifying this zone.
The... The spectres, I know where they come from... They all come from the
postal service. The postal service? That's where we take care of sending the
packaged forms. The problem is that... uh... nobody can remember the floor where
it's found.
My office is in the basement because there is no more space on the stories
above......I suppose.
[Take the lift/Cancel] [Take the lift]: Choose your floor Basement 00000  Ground
floor -- 00001 Roof ---- 99999  Postal service - ????? [If Variable 21 Is 1]:
Ground floor Reception [If Variable 21 Is 0]: You are already in the basement.
[If Variable 21 Is 99999]: Roof [If Variable 21 Is 2584]: Floor 02584 Lost
property office [If Variable 21 Is 10258]: Floor 10258 Postal service [If
Variable 21 Is 87666]: Floor 87666 Secret Service [If Variable 21 Is Anything
Else]: Floor [Variable 21] Various offices
Hhh... You are here at the plastic administrations of Shachihata, in the north
of zone 1. Our work consists of filling in forms. Afterwards, we package them
and wrap them up with string to send them to the courier service. There, they
ship the packages, and in exchange, we receive parcels full of plastic. There is
a lot of liquid plastic that forms our lakes and oceans. And then there is solid
plastic, used to make various objects. It's an essential element, the first
among the four elements. Because without plastic, the world would be limitless,
and people would keep walking and walking without ever stopping.
Form [Variable 23], stamp [Variable 24]
Form 2584, stamp 10258
Form 87666, stamp 2584
By Jove, you again? You are decidedly everywhere. One could even believe you
were following me. Yet your footsteps have not deceived you, for you are here in
a place that could certainly use sacred blows from your holy bat. Perhaps you
are already aware of this, but it happens to be that the floor housing this
administration's postal service is haunted by ectoplasms. It would be most
judicious to find the storey where all these intangible monsters arise from
posthaste, in order to slay them. But could it be that this task is too arduous
for your narrow mind? In which case, I might perhaps be able to provide you with
advice... [No thanks./Some help would be welcome.] [No thanks.]: I salute your
tenacity, but I will bear your insufferable arrogance in mind. [Some help would
be welcome.]: Open widely your ears and listen well, for I will not say this
twice, not even amidst the most pathetic pleas. In one of the four rooms on the
ground floor, the employees inside seem to be trained under particular
directives. Additionally, if there was a choice to be made, I would choose the
lower case over the upper case. That is all.
So, will the final verdict soon be reached? Numerous employees are certainly in
need of your muscular wrist...
This container is impure! A Luck ticket has been found.
An Aura of Justice has been found.
... I'm the Batter. Where are the phantoms? ... I'm... I'm very afraid......
Help me. Maybe... Maybe it's his suit that has taken control of his... his
brain... Strange...
Floor 10258 Area 1/2 Postal service
... No one?
Something strange is written on this form... "Second version: They are eight,
and they have long beards. They watch what is happening from their high silver
spheres."
Floor 10258 Postal services
Floor 10258 Area 2/3 Postal service
Something strange is written on this form... "First version: They lie six feet
under, surrounded by hot metal and liquid plastic."
Something strange is written on this form... "Third version: A sole big insect,
whose mandibles spit meat."
Something strange is written on this form... "Fourth version: They are four,
each one attributed to an element. They protect their respective crystals."
Floor 10258 Area 3/4 Postal service
Something strange is written on this form... "Fifth version: Five, like the
fingers on a hand. Their lungs produce primordial smoke."
The way is blocked off.
Something strange is written on this form... "Last version: There are but two,
in the secret zone."
Uhm... Uh... Access to the secret elevator is, uhm... forbidden... Did... Did I
say secret? [I must pass./Understood.] [I must pass.]: Ah? Uh... Really? No,
uh... I think that's... uh... impossible... Unless... you uh... You have... the
code? [If Variable 25 Is 681452]: The... The code, it... it is exactly correct.
... Ho-... How...? You... You must not pass! I don't want to die! I'm going...
to Alma ...... It will be nice. [Else]: Uh... No... That's... That's not the
code. [Understood.]: Well, uh... Good.
Floor ??? The Director's Office
Looks like you've found this building's dark secret. See? I'm always ahead of
you. Don't you find that strange? Well, look, take this thing I have in my mouth
and go do something more interesting. A Taurus-orb has been found.
I don't have anything else in my mouth, and you've got more interesting things
to do. If you want to buy things, you can find me in the basement.
[Descend to ground floor/Floor 10258 Area 3/4/Cancel] [Descend to ground floor]:
You can only return to this room through floor 10258. [Go to ground
floor/Cancel] [Go to ground floor]: Ground floor Reception [Floor 10258 Area
3/4]: Floor 10258 Area 3/4 Postal service
Pitiful bastards! Disappear this instant! This is my zone! You are not to be
here! Out of my sight, you fucking phantoms! ... hhh... hhh...... YOU! It's you,
the source of all my troubles! The ectoplasmic lord who has set his fucking
sights on my beloved zone! What do you want? Why have you decided to be such a
pain in my ass? I have dedicated my whole life to this place. You have no right
to corrupt it with your pathetic phantoms! BEGONE!! You're mistaken. I'm not a
phantom. I'm a purifier. I've come to cleanse the world of these ectoplasmic
beings. How dare you respond? And how dare you think I will just swallow these
insults... Listen well, this is simple. Get out of here and take your goddamn
specters with you, or I am going to kill you. I hope for your sake that I have
made myself clear. If I see you again... You're dead. The tramway will now stop
in Alma.
Uhm... I... I am not allowed to let anyone pass... Unless... Unless they answer
some questions... 1. Two of them come from Jerusalem and... 2. The Holy Trinity
is made of... 3. Our Lady wears jersey number... 4. How many threes are there in
June? 5. Cyrille, Kevin & ...... All your answers are correct. But... Uh...
There is one more question. 6. If you turn the month March upside-down, what
two-digit number can you read? That's... That's correct......correct... My... My
nails are all dirty... Uh... No. That's not it. 2. The Holy Trinity is made
of... 3. Our Lady wears jersey number... 4. How many threes are there in June?
5. Cyrille, Kevin & ...... One or more of your answers were false.
... All your answers are correct. But... Uh... There is one last question left.
6. If you turn the month March upside-down, what two digit number can you read?
That's... That's correct......correct... My... My nails are all dirty... Uh...
No. That's not it. 
Take a closer look? Up - Down : Observe Left - Right : Previous - next image
Enter : Quit
You... You... uh... I'm here to see Dedan. De... Dedan... Yes... Yes, of
course...
Ma...  Master Dedan has an office in the center of the fountains... But ... but
nobody has ever found it. Generally... speaking... Master Dedan seems to only
appear when necessary... Well, uh... there. ...... Who are you again? I've come
to liberate the world of malignance. Oh... Oh really? Uh... well then... Can you
liberate me? Maybe things will be better now...
Bonjour, [entered name]! In good form? ... Perhaps you have some credits to
spare?
This block prevents access to the central part of the fountains.
Hhh... You are here at the meat fountains of Alma, in the center of zone 1.
Here, meat flows freely; endlessly filling these immense metal pools in which we
find ourselves. Our work consists of pouring this meat into bottles before the
fountains overflow. The meat is then sent to everyone; to those living in zone 1
and the others. It's an essential element, the first among the four elements.
Because without meat, people would have nothing to eat, and they would devour
each other.
Le... Let me work! Yet I've never been ill...
Pedalo recovery point. Call a pedalo?
I don't want to be burnt. Well, damn.
I don't want to be a phantom... What's happening to me?
We're not productive enough anymore... If I'm not working... Then who will?
I wish you good day, dear omnipresent companion. Soon, you will have been able
to admire all the scarlet and ultramarine landscapes of this zone. You seem
distraught by the unique architecture of this place. If such is truly the case,
you should learn how to concentrate. So as to be mistaken no more in your choice
of opportunities, proposed to you at every corner of this maze. Next time,
linger and ponder a little longer before traversing one of these trap doors, you
young drunkard.
Are you certain that you want to pass through this gate?
... You!! By the Queen's thousand faces! Are you crazy, or just completely
idiotic? What part of "I am going to kill you" wasn't clear to you? I'm here to
eliminate you. You're insane. I am the guardian of zone 1, it is nothing without
me! What mental illness enables this blind faith, hiding the obvious from your
eyes? I'm the one who's going to purify the world. And you're the pest that eats
away at this land. Prepare yourself. hhh ... hhh ... hhh ... Is... this... a
joke?.. I ... I ... I lost ? lost ??? You are defeated, Dedan, guardian of the
first zone. This land is now pure. Would you like to save?
An Inspiration has been found.
A Fortune ticket has been found.
Two pieces of Golden flesh have been found.
...It doesn't seem to work.
That's not interesting.
Ten Eyes have been found.
Four pieces of Abaddon's meat have been found.
A Monday has been found.
The Grand Finale has been found.
Salutations, dear immaculate comrade. Is your journey unfolding under optimal
conditions? These premises are less humid than the preceding ones; I must admit
that I am very pleased about that. The feline race is not very fond of rain. I
have heard from an old friend that the shopping mall in the north of the city
has fallen prey to ectoplasmic assaults... Perhaps it would be wise for you to
make your way there and illuminate the place with your purifying light.
There's an arrow painted on the wall.
There has to be a good reason.
We can't get to the park? Maybe it's better that way.
I have no fear. I know how to not have fear anymore. I am not afraid. Do you
want to know how? If you're not scared to know, ask me.
The page has taught me. I am not afraid anymore now. Do you want to be free from
fear? Give me 100 credits, and I'll give you the page. Here, I'll give you the
page. You already have a page. You can only carry one at a time. You don't have
enough credits. I'm keeping the page. I'm keeping it.
I no longer have the risk of getting a paper cut now. I will never again fear.
A Min-Woo Tunic has been found.
The mall is full of spectres. It's terribly frightening.
These barriers prevent people from falling into the plastic. They're even made
of rubber, so you don't hurt yourself. It's good.
I am embarrassed, I admit, but it appears that I need you and your puppet's
purifying intentions, dear [entered name]... Valerie, my beloved brother,
appears to have fallen off the rails of level-headed conciousness and into the
throes of uncontrollable madness. He pretends to be called Japhet; and, besides
being the royal representative he has never been, proclaims himself leader of
the spectres. Two roles he has usurped, no doubt. Nobody in this world, I can
assure you, has any control over the ectoplasms... ... Except perhaps for the
Queen, but I have yet to find any tangible evidence or truthful testimony for
this hypothesis. Be that as it may, Valerie has taken his place on the roof of
the library. And, although I suppose this could be but a coincidence, it seems
that a crowd of phantoms is perambulating the corridors of the same building. I
believe this is a perfect mission for you, full of that gratuitous violence in
which you seem to be joyfully delighting. Alright. I'm going to the library. I
will follow you.
The residential area is for residents only. Imagine the panic if intruders ever
sneaked into our homes...
This barrier prevents me from passing. I don't share any resemblance with the
locals.
You live in Bismark? It's strange that you're not wearing a tie.
Oh, you're wearing a tie, you must certainly be trustworthy...
It... seems that the residential area has been attacked by spectres... I... I
won't dare go there ever again...
I'm doing nothing wrong... I like looking at the wall.
Yes, no, I... I'm only looking at the wall.
Leave me alone... I... It's only a wall.
I think the wall tells me things... Do you hear it?
I... I think it has ears. But nobody is talking here, so it can't hear anyone.
That's sad. It protects the books, but it can't read them. Maybe we're all
protecting something, without really knowing what... Or maybe we are ruining
things.
Leave me to admire this wall... It must be suffering, all the time.
Yes. We should no longer lend any books to that man. He tears out the pages.
It's almost dangerous. Yes. I'm going back upstairs.
Hello. Welcome to the library. Uh... I should point out that the upstairs floor
is inaccessible because of the spectres. There are phantoms inside this
building? Uhh... Y... Yes...... Why? I'm going to eliminate those impures. De...
Destroy the spectres? But uhm... uh... You know, uh, you... You could get
hurt... And uh... there is nothing up there. Only walls, shelves, stairs, and an
old cat. A cat? I'm going up to purify that floor. Ah... Well, uh... Okay. Don't
make too much noise, then. And the third floor is not really accessible; people
have torn pages out of the books there. So, I don't want people to go up there
anymore. It could be dangerous.
The third floor is inaccessible, I don't want people to ruin the books. There's
already someone who rips out pages, so if disorder ensued there as well...
Someone could blame me. And if you go on upstairs, don't make too much noise...
If... If you please...
I put the books back in order. Ah... Ah, really? I... That's good. I... I'll let
you go further up, then. That... That's great. The third floor's now accessible.
But only for you.
The third floor's now accessible. But only for you. Don't make too much noise,
if you please.
A... Are you alright? You didn't get hurt up there? I saw a cat, it's waiting in
front of the southern entrance.
If you plan to go upstairs, don't make too much noise, please.
You... You're gonna go up to the roof? That's... dangerous, isn't it? Well,
don't make too much noise, please.
This... This is a large building.
These are fake shelves.
It's not easy to find your way back outside... Everything... Everything looks
the same.
These are fake shelves. There's a visible base under the real ones.
This book is called "How to become a super combat master of the universe in 5
lessons". I don't have time to read this, I must purify this zone.
There are lots of small booklets with notes here. "Start Player Info" is written
on all their covers.
I... I prefer the fake books, you can't damage them.
This book is titled "Tales and Legends." Read?
The title of this book is unreadable. Read?
This book is titled "Explanations." Read?
This book is titled "Written by E.S." Read?
This barrier prevents me from going upstairs.
Don't turn the pages, it makes too much noise... O... Okay?
This book is titled "The Up-Children-Down". Read?
This book is titled "Bismark." Read?
This book is titled "The Cardinal Points." Read? No matter what way I hold the
book, it stays upside-down...
There's no title on the cover. Read?
There is a book with a page missing. The book has a page in it. The book has a
page in it. The book has a page in it. The book has a page in it. The book has a
page in it. The book has a page in it. The book has a page in it. The book has a
page in it. It is impossible that you should read this message. If so, that
means there's a damn bug somewhere.
Everything's in order here.
There is a page of a book on the wall. You already have a page. You can only
carry one at a time.
A Choleric Symbol has been found.
It's impossible to pass through.
It's impossible to pass through. Perhaps I should have a talk with the
receptionist.
We're high up.
Add-On Omega has joined you.
This barrier prevents me from going upstairs. It's impossible to climb any
higher at this point.
Who... Who are you? What... What is that? You're not the Judge. The... The
Judge?... No. No, that is not my name. My name is Japhet. I am the creator of
this city. I am also the one who leads the phantoms, the royal instruments of my
vengeance. You're the leader of the specters? Precisely. They are my arms, sent
to me by the Queen to restore justice to this zone. You must have been quite
ardent to have set foot on the stairs of this library. I recognise in you a
certain courage, an exceptional trait in this fear-riddled place. However, my
vengeance will not leave anyone unpunished. Therefore, you shall be the first to
succumb to the blasts of my ectoplasmic army! hhh... hhh... hhh... Pitiful fool!
It is not yet time for me to reveal my true nature. But know that you will soon
get what you deserve, you insufferable buffoon.
This block prevents me from getting up to the roof.
Nice view from up here, don't you think? It almost makes me forget that this is
only a video game.
Valerie! Valerie? That is ...the name of the cat. You are mistaking me for
someone else. I am Japhet, the firebird, guardian of zone 2! Oh, cease your
paranoid frenzy, dear brother, and come back with me to zone 0. I have built a
cellar where we will forget these sad moments... I am not your brother, I do not
even belong to the race of carnivores! Look upon my true face, you poor,
foul-smelling cat! Va... Valerie?? Will you not understand? I am not Valerie,
but Japhet! I have taken control of your pathetic brother. Unable to even chew
through a bird to the end. ... Whatever. Japhet, I am here to purify you, you
who claim to control the specters. I was waiting, Batter. I will not surrender
without a fight. ... Valerie... So you have beaten me... You can be proud, you
have accomplished your mission, Batter... Valerie... You are defeated, Japhet,
guardian of the second zone. This land is now pure. Add-On Omega has joined you.
Would you like to save?
This obstacle is preventing me from entering the gallaries.
Special Sale: Buy two pounds of organ meat, get one pound free!
This is an ad for bottles of smoke.
This is an ad for plastic treasure chests.
Buenos dias, dear [entered name]. What better place to shop than a shopping
mall?
This is an ad for baseball bats.
This is an ad for metal tables.
This is an ad for raw meat.
This barrier stops me from passing through.
Buy fifty litres of blue paint, get the fifty-first litre free!
Please excuse the state of decay and disorder of our galleries.
Welcome to the Gomez Galleries! May nothing stop your frenetic thirst for
consumerism.
This is an ad for metal floors.
These are bottles of smoke.
Special sale on bottles of smoke: Get seven for the price of six!
This is an ad for meat home deliveries.
The freshest air comes from our bottles of smoke.
"Build your walls out of metal! In the event of an attack, their sturdiness is
certain."
Your neckties are made from a synthetic fabric, based on plastic with a
registered designation of origin.
Our plastic chairs are designed without any potentially dangerous edges.
This is an ad for meat: "Handled carefully by the employees of zone 1, our meat
is preservatives-free, guaranteed!"
This is an ad for protective metal railings.
These are barrels full of liquid plastic.
Special discount on wave machines!
Join our contest to win batches of free barrels of plastic!
Our delicious, nutritious meat is ground in the traditional pedalo stroke style.
Got time to kill? Visit Unproductive Fun Time, please. They put great emphasis
on the "please"...
A piece of Moloch's meat has been found.
Two pieces of Silver flesh have been found.
Feeling depressed ? Try Modestia!
Our mannequins are certified sharp edge-free, and therefore will not be
hazardous to your health.
Because life is too short... Buy some Jokers!
The Gomez Galleries offer you a large variety of boxes full of plastic and
metal...
Gomez Luck Tickets are manufactured and tested by specialists.
Is your life morose? Then take a trip to the amusement park!
Buy your clothes at Zacharie's. Special offer for [entered name]!
I'm lost... I could make a fire with the boxes to ward off the ghosts... But
that's too dangerous.
These are barrels of cat food.
Is this advertisement not of such effectiveness, defying the basic laws of
mainstream marketing? ... "For silkier fur: The pâté from the fountains of Alma"
Would you look at that, you know how to read? In any case, I am glad to have
found you; perhaps you can help me shed light on the mystery which fate has
placed before me. It turns out that my brother has been living in this zone for
numerous years, having a particular affinity for cooler colours of the spectrum.
Unfortunately, I have not succeeded in crossing his path. I have well tried to
betake myself to the roof of the central library, where he resides, but found
the door closed, remaining as such even after long hours of intensive, repeated
miaowing and compulsive scratching. Therefore, my request is as follows: If at
the bend of a corridor you happen to pass Valerie, give him my greetings. Okay.
What exquisite composition... What subtlety of form... This is truly a
masterpiece, a work that will be remembered.
"For silkier fur: The pâté from the fountains of Alma"
From here, you will wait no more than 74 minutes.
From here, you will wait no more than 39 minutes.
What a terribly frightening place... Fortunately, there are no phantoms around
here.
I knew we should have closed this place! It's far too dangerous!! Far too much!
The Cruise of Happiness Wander down a long, quiet river in security and
serenity.
The Roller Coaster Complete safety for the whole family.
Perhaps the room that lies beyond this door will cease to exist the moment I
cross the doorstep...... And I would fall endlessly into an abyss which in
itself does not even really exist. What a terribly frightening thought. When in
doubt, stay here.
Aaaah!! I can't get over this wall!! The spectres are going to eat me!
Choosing between three attractions is too difficult a dilemma for me.
I'm too scared, by golly, I'm much too scared!!
Due to their dangerous nature, we strongly advise against approaching the pools
of plastic.
The Balloon Game Attention: Due to loud noises, this attraction is not
recommended for the faint of heart...
Putting water inside of a room is really a completely crazy concept. One can
really see that we're in a theme park.
You don't seem to be very good at this balloon game... You have to complete the
sets of four, otherwise he will do it for you... Uh... I don't know if I'm being
clear... 
Aaaah!!! Aaaah!!! Spectres in the park! What a panic!
I'd rather look out there. This attraction looks too daredevilish for me.
It's that chair there that I want, I'm just waiting for him to be finished.
I feel like I'm going to vomit ... That wouldn't be very wise.
It's... less... scary... like this.
I'm scared to get off while it's running...
This is the way to the old Roller Coaster. It was made off-limits before it was
completed.
To ride the Roller Coaster I have to climb up.
Who are you? I thought the Roller Coaster had been closed down... If you ride
it, you are entitled to a photo.
Here is your photo. A Photo of You has been found.
Here is your photo. A Photo of Zacharie has been found. Woaw, you're lucky, you
rode it with the owner...
Ride the Roller Coaster? 
I prefer to take the seat in front.
It's a statue of Zacharie. Push?
This... This is the boss's office. I... I cannot let you enter. U... Unless you
know him personally? But... without proof, I can't... I might get in trouble.
Is... Is that a photo of the boss? A... And you're right next to him? On a
roller coaster!? But that's terribly dangerous! Well... at any rate... You're a
friend of the boss, so You may enter.
These motors are placed underwater to guide the pedalo.
The cruise starts on the other end.
You... You shouldn't ride the roller coaster again. Who knows what could happen.
A Loyal Symbol has been found.
Four pieces of Belial's meat have been found.
Lever preventing access to the Roller Coaster. Leave it activated, please.
W... Welcome. Play, play, play the Balloon Game! If... If you win, you get the
grand prize. But... But if you lose, you might be sad. So... uh... be careful.
Play the Balloon Game? Okay, let's start. Ah... Ok... Maybe later then. Okay...
Here are the rules. It's easy. When it's your turn, you can choose to pop one,
two, or three balloons. When it's my turn, I'll do the same. The one who pops
the last balloon loses the game. Do you understand? Okay, let's start. Ah...
Ok... Maybe later then. Ah... Ok... Maybe later then.
I'll go first. It's your turn. Pop how many balloons? I... I... I've lost...
No... That's impossible, after all, I have been cheating from the start... You
cheated!! You want to hurt me!! ...The grand prize was a necktie? You lost...
It's my turn. You lost... 
There's 1 phantom remaining in the area. There are [Variable 51] phantoms
remaining in the area.
Please ... Help me find the bunker ... You know, the one with 1805 as the access
code...
The door opens with a code.
Someone closed the door from the inside!! It's dangerous out here! If I can't
get in, the spectres will hurt me, AAAaaaah!! Aaaaah!!
They're going to find me! There's no place to hide... I don't want to be in
pain...
Nooo! Bismark is far too peaceful for this! Save us! For pity's sake, save us!
Help!! Help, I'm in a jam!
There are still spectres everywhere! Quick, save our city!
Aaaaah! Aaaaaah! I'll soon have no more saliva to shout with!
Where are the culprits?? ...Who are the culprits??
You've saved our city. I've purified this place, but this zone has not yet been
freed of its true pest. Where can I find Japhet? Japhet? Who's Japhet? The cat
who directs the specters. Uh... the cat? No, I don't understand. A... Anyway,
we're really grateful that you have helped us. But, uh... That thing you have
there... My bat? Yes... your... bat... That's a mighty dangerous object... I'll
have to ask you to leave the residential area. ... And to give us your tie.
You... You understand, of course... It's just... Just a security measure... The
tie has been lost.
This... This is too much anxiety for my brain... It's gonna exploooooooode! I
... I did not deserve this ...
My adrenaline level is rising, it's going to drown my nervous system and I'm
going to die!
Aaaaah! Spectres! Spectres, spectres everywhere!
There is still time to repent of your omissions, miserable ingrates... Beg for
my forgiveness at once, or you will return to limbo in an instant. Who is that
talking? Pitiful cretins!! I am here, right before you, ready to send you to
hell! Well? Are you prepared to offer apologies to your father and protector,
you bunch of sops? There's nothing but an old cat, over there. That could be
dangerous, a cat... It has sharp claws. Yes, and then it can spread diseases...
Have you heard that story before, about the guy who got scratched by a cat?
Aaarrggghh!! I loathe you, I hate all of you! But where's that voice coming
from? Someone who seems to be in a bad mood... Yes, he should just enjoy this
place, so quiet and calm. Here, we're safe. But it was me!! It was me who made
all of this for you! Are you all so blinded by your pathetic fear of life? This
is quite strange, isn't it? That is enough!! I am going to teach you to respect
me... 
Let's purge these impure beasts... And fast.
I can't see anything! Help me, it's so horrible!
No... No... Leave me alone... I'll tell you everything... I... I don't know...

I'm not in charge of that particular bunker... Too much responsibility is too
stressful... Yes... Yes, I'll give it to you right away, it's... 1402... Please
leave me alone now... N... No... Uh... I don't know... W... What? What are you
talking about?
No! No! I have done nothing, by pity! Please tell me you pity me...
It's an ad for the park: "Since the closure of the roller coaster, the park is
much less dangerous! "
It's an anouncement: "In the event of an attack, the bunker appointed to you is
the northern one. Ask the person in charge for the code."
Aaargh! They've found me! They've found me!!
No, no, go away, Masque of the Red Death... Aaargghh!! What terrible suffering!
A Michael Bat has been found.
A piece of Golden flesh has been found.
This sign is unreadable.
Three pieces of Golden flesh have been found.
This book is called "The Wide Angle, a Recurring Theme".
This book is called "The Celestial Bibendum".
These are nothing but blank pages.
Il y a un livre avec une page déchirée. Il y a une page posée Il y a une page
posée. Il y a une page posée Il y a une page posée. Il y a une page posée Il y a
une page posée. Il y a une page posée Il y a une page posée. Il est impossible
que vous lisiez ce message. Si c'est le cas, c'est qu'il y a un satané bug
quelque part.
A Vengeful Symbol has been found.
This poster is blank.
There's nothing on the poster.
There's nothing on the panel.
A Colour of Sadness has been found.
An Aura of Greatness has been found.
The door only opens with a code.
The phantoms are gone... The color is gone... Everything is gone... I am now
forever safe.
A Thursday has been found.
The Grand Diagonal has been found.
There's something written here: "I'm away for a minute."
It's a poster full of stamp marks. Take it? The Stamped Note has been found.
The monorail is free and accessible to all personnel. Sensational, isn't it?
Vesper Monorail. Please choose your destination. A special access card is
required to enter Area 4.
Vesper Monorail. Please choose your destination.
The plastic is beautiful today...
I think my stamped note can be of use to me here... [entered name], display it
when you can by pressing the SHIFT key.
Let your jubilance guide you, and you will avoid the spectres easily.
Are you aware that the position of the cutlery on your plate means something?
The phantoms aren't evil, you don't have to be afraid...
Memo : "Your lunch break must not exceed two hours. Be careful."
Memo : "Chew your meat well or you will not get any dessert."
Memo: "The cleaning chore is assigned based on your employee number."
Top o' the morning, dear reckless accomplice! I have somewhat changed,
anatomically speaking, but you have obviously recognized me at first glance, me,
your friend the Judge! Zacharie? ... So my disguise is no match for your
piercing and unforgiving eyes... Pablo isn't in great shape at the moment. I'm
going to replace him for a while. Moreover, I'll immediately go on the search
for obscure clues that I'll take pleasure in sparingly revealing to you in a
deconstructed form. Ha ha ha, we're gonna have fun, you and I. ... Would you go
take a look around the dormitories in the meantime? I've heard that the specters
there were quite active.
The dormitories are on the upper left of the cafeteria. It's right next door.
Why not go and check it out, you may find some interesting clues there. Clues
about what? ... Come see me when you're done.
Top o' the morning, dear reckless accomplice! I have somewhat changed,
anatomically speaking, but you have obviously recognized me at first glance, me,
your friend the Judge! Zacharie? ... So my disguise is no match for your
piercing and unforgiving eyes... Pablo isn't in great shape at the moment. I'm
going to replace him for a while. Moreover, I'll immediately go on the search
for obscure clues that I'll take pleasure in sparingly revealing to you in a
deconstructed form. Ha ha ha, we're gonna have fun, you and I. ... I've taken a
look around the dorms... It seems that the people here aren't afraid of the
specters. ... Not afraid of the ectoplasms? That's very odd indeed... I must
admit that I have very few customers around here, so I'm not up to date on local
customs. Maybe you'd do well to go see Area 2. They call it the "Treatment
Rooms". Okay. It's simple, you just have to take the underground monorail. Let's
have a race, too. If you get there first, I'll give you an item for free. Hey,
by the way, you've only visited the western dorms. Perhaps you should explore
the eastern ones before heading off to Area 2.
So [entered name], how is your investigation of the dormitories going? It seems
that the people here aren't afraid of the specters. ... Not afraid of the
ectoplasms? That's very odd indeed... I must admit that I have very few
customers around here, so I'm not up to date on local customs. Maybe you'd do
well to go see Area 2. They call it the "Treatment Rooms". Okay. It's simple,
you just have to take the underground monorail. Let's have a race, too. If you
get there first, I'll give you an item for free. Hey, by the way, you've only
visited the western dorms. Perhaps you should explore the eastern ones before
heading off to Area 2.
Get to Area 2. It's simple, you just have to take the underground monorail. If
you get there first, I'll give you a free item! Hey, by the way, you've only
visited the western dorms. Perhaps you should explore the eastern ones before
heading off to Area 2.
Memo: "There are no specters under the mattresses."
Uh... Uh... I... I'm not hiding anything, promise...
Two Fortune tickets have been found.
Memo: "Do not forget to make your bed when you get up."
There's no need to fear, no one wishes you harm.
... Who are you? Are you... spectres? You... You're not evil, right? O... Of
course not... You're our friends. This... this isn't a... A serious injury...
I'm sure of it... Taste my holy wrath, corrupt souls. May salvation be yours,
children of evil. People behave very strangely around here... I should go talk
to Zacharie about it. I should probably try to find the Judge...
Memo: "It is forbidden to take the dessert to bed."
Uh... Uh... I... I'm hiding nothing! I promise...
He's dead.
I love the cafeteria food. Yes, I love it a lot. Yes.
I believe zone 3 is the best place in the whole world.
The director told us that the spectres are nice. It must be true.
Memo: "Do not attack the specters, and they will not attack you..."
Add-On Epsilon has joined you.
Memo: "Have sweet dreams at night."
You should not make so little noise when you walk, it's abnormal...
Ah ah ah, too bad, dear [entered name]! I've arrived before you. At the same
time, this was scripted. You had no chance to pull it off. So look, here's an
item to help you forget the pains and sorrows of such a bitter and irrevocable
defeat. A Golden flesh has been found. I'll leave you now to search the area. If
you find something suspicious, don't hesitate to let me know as soon as
possible.
This obstacle blocks the access.
So, what's new? Nothing. Alright. Come back when you have fresh news, then.
Memo: "If you do not work your regulated work hours daily, you will not get any
dessert."
Memo : "Do your job well and you will be rewarded."
I should make a bit of money too, after all.
This block keeps me from accessing this switch.
The director said if we work properly, we'll keep getting it... All the better,
one should work their job wholeheartedly!
This block prevents me from entering the next room.
If... If I pierce the pipes... I could make some of it come out... But if it
broke loose, I would never get any of it again...
Access to the Treatment Rooms authorised.
This block prevents me from entering the adjoining room.
.........hhh...
A Fast Symbol has been found.
Working is a pleasure every day...
I think there's a problem with the dessert. My portion today isn't as big as
usual...
Entry reserved to factory personnel only. Security test... Please enter the
passname Code correct. Entry authorised. Code incorrect. Director's note: Be
careful about typos.
Mmmm... It smells awfully good in here. Without doubt, that is due to these
piles of immaculate white and granular powder. It resembles sugar. I think it is
sugar. Seems so. Ah ah ah. Well, this is quite surprising, I didn't think I'd
find such an ingredient in this er... this place. Maybe we'll find answers for
this in Area 3... Logic obliges us to start with the third before trying the
final one; we are in a videogame, need I remind you. Let's do things in a
constructive way. Well, go on, I'll meet you again over there, hurry. By the
way, I suggest you be careful on your way back; people seem to be feeling under
the weather... They even appear to be in a damn bad mood. Understood. See you
later.
No ... No ... The ... The sugar... Do-... Don't touch the sugar... Ge... Get
the... Get the hell out, spectres! Out!! Out!! You ... you want to eat our sugar
too! No ... No, we must protect... The sugar ...
I... I don't have the right to eat too much sugar, it's evil, evil. No... No,
the director said... The director said...
In the pipes it runs, it runs so fast... It would tell us the secret of sugar,
but it's forbidden by the executive suite. It's fine, everything will go fine,
you'll see...
The dessert is in danger! High alert, this is important, I don't want to come
back anymore... Uh ... Huh ... It's ... It's only time...
The phantoms are nice, they wouldn't attack the sugar! You're lying, you're
lying! Why did you lie?
There's too much white in my head... It overflowed, so much...
All the better all the better, that certainly buys us some time. I must purify
this zone's guardian. Ahaha, of course, of course. That's a given. I have an
Access Card for the monorail. Let's hurry to Area 4 to meet that mysterious
director.
I'm here, I'm here! Welcome, [entered name]. I'm here, I'm here! Welcome,
[entered name].
Sometimes, when I go to sleep, I'm afraid that my legs aren't there anymore when
I wake up...
This block keeps me from accessing this place.
Health Points at zero! Ahaha, too bad, you sick puppy.
Game of the Mortal Fall Catch ten Add-Ons before the timer runs out so the
Batter doesn't die in a bloody crash. Be careful about the phantoms! If you
touch three of them, you lose. Press Enter to begin!
Time's up! Ahaha, too bad, you sick puppy.
Jump?
The... su.. The... sug... The sugar..... The sugar into the pipe, the sugar into
the pipe! ... into the pipe.
These are the pipes he's putting the sugar in. I'm going to check downstairs
before jumping in there.
These are the pipes he's putting the sugar in. Jump ?
C'est la canalisation dans laquelle il met le sucre. Je vais d'abord aller voir
en bas des escaliers avant de sauter là dedans.
It's a pile of dead people.
You... What... Where did you come from? I'm the Batter, and I jumped down the
chimney. Ah. What is this place? ...
Who's responsible for this? Are you... you bringing me sugar? No. The director
is responsible. He... He's in Area 4. Okay.
I have work to do.
This is an oven, lit by corpses.
C'est un four, alimenté en cadavres.
Uhm... You're here in the sugar ovens of Vesper, in the north of zone 3. Here,
we burn the corpses of people who have died, and, thanks to an ingenious system
of piping, transform the vapour into sugar. The pipes which traverse the factory
walls direct it to the Treatment Rooms, where it is washed and purified from the
remaining ashes. Then the sugar is distributed to all employees as a reward for
the work they deliver every day. It's a secret element, the fifth element, and
the most important. Because without sugar, people could no longer bear reality,
and they would go mad.
Uhm... You're here in the sugar ovens of Vesper, in the north of zone 3. I know,
that's already been explained to me. ... Ah. 
This time, I'll be going on ahead; we'll meet up again later. Take care of
yourself.
Ah ...Pant ... ah... Pant... Pathetic whippersnapper! Cold water eel! I had to
drag my body filled to the brim with fat substances through the pipes of my own
domain... It was difficult and humiliating, but... I'll devour your hopes for
survival like a little sugar cube. ... with relish! (... pant...) Pitiful idiot,
you've tired yourself, exhausting your strength without taking your poor
endurance into account! My duty is now within my clairvoyant hand's reach... hhh
... hhh ... So, the hero has destroyed the beast... But do you know just what
you have done? This zone, deprived of its guardian, is now destined to
disappear... And the people who live here, whether they deserve it or not, to
fall into nothingness without hope of return. You are defeated, Enoch, guardian
of the third zone. This land is now pure. Add-On Epsilon has joined you. Would
you like to save?
The path is blocked...
It's locked.
This desk goes through the wall. Push it?
There's a hole in the wall; the desk goes through it.
Ehehe, I may have some mischievous advice to relieve your mental suffering from
a wrong dosage of difficulty. But this time, it's not for free anymore... I'm on
the search for a particular object, which should be around here somewhere. Bring
me this intriguing item, and I will open the doors of understanding for you.
Ohoho! But what do we have here? Wouldn't that be a music box? I must admit that
I am highly interested in this object, to acquire it is very near and dear to my
heart. Would you agree to entrust it to me in exchange for a valuable clue?
Ahaha! Beautiful, beautiful. What a smoothly conducted deal this was. Now open
your ears widely and listen attentively to this welcome advice of mine. In the
game's folder inside your file browser, there is a "Read me" file. Its name is
not innocent; I actively advise you to read it assiduously. That's all. 
Ahaha! Beautiful, beautiful. What a smoothly conducted deal this was. Now open
your ears widely and listen attentively to this welcome advice of mine. In the
game's folder inside your file browser, there is a "Read me" file. Its name is
not innocent; I actively advise you to read it assiduously. That's all.
A Friday has been found.
The access to the lower level has been authorized. I don't need this anymore.
These are books about sugar.
CODE CORRECT Access to the lower level authorised. CODE INCORRECT CODE INCORRECT
CODE INCORRECT CODE INCORRECT CODE INCORRECT CODE INCORRECT CODE INCORRECT CODE
INCORRECT CODE INCORRECT CODE INCORRECT
I have nothing but beautiful, good things on me, so buy something, my friend.
My... Legs... Sting me. The... The city belongs to us...
A Music box has been found.
Impossible to access the lower level.
This path is blocked...
Executive suite's note: You should not be here.
Impossible to enter.
Add-On Epsilon has joined you.
This director is fast and very robust... We'll have to be inventive to get rid
of him.
Yaaaahahaha!!! In the shadow of the valley of death, you shall fear the apostle
of darkness! I'll kill you, Batter!
Pant... Pant... You won't get away this time, you pathetic little thug! Prepare
yourself to join the phantoms! (... Gasp...)
He's very strong...
... Who... Who are you? I'm the Batter, and I've come to purify you, mister
director. Purify? But that's ridiculous! Nothing justifies this drastic measure!
It was the Queen who sent you, wasn't it? Obviously, it was the Queen. It must
have been her. Be it as it may, I refuse! It's not a question of choice; you're
the monstrous master of this horrible factory. I'm here to make you atone for
your sins. Monstrous? Horrible factory? This is my fortress of happiness, my
defence against the specters! The people here were happy, before the phantoms
arrived. Incidentally, I still don't understand why the dead aren't
disappearing. The dead? Well, yes. The phantoms. They are the souls of dead
people... Has that thought never occured to you? It's only logical...... But...
You have nothing to do with the phantoms? Of course not. I'm Enoch, the guardian
of zone 3. My role, like that of all guardians, consists of modelling the energy
sent by the Queen Mother to shape a solid context. I am the living engine of
zone 3. The Queen relies on us to create living spaces for the people. We are a
little like gods, drawing from the infinite power of the sun to sculpt our
worlds into the nothingness. Ahaha, I love that metaphor. Yes, like gods...
Precisely. You demented child of evil. The last grain of sand has fallen through
the hourglass of your life. Certainly not! No matter your physical strength, you
can't withstand my excess weight! Ahaha, fear me like the menacing shadow of
your imminent extinction! Damn, this lardass is sturdier than expected. We'll
have to find another way to purify him...
Stop fidgeting, we'll be there soon.
I'm keeping watch here; go see what's happening outside.
Attention. Attention. Obstacle detected. Vehicle is unable to move forward. ...
It seems that there's a slight problem. Would you take a look outside while I
keep watch? 
I'm not going this way.
What are you doing in the middle of the tracks? ... hhh ... hhh ...
I'm keeping watch here; go see what's happening outside.
So, what's blocking the path? Obstacle disappeared. The monorail is going to
re-depart. Please be careful during departure.
A Colour of Force has been found.
Three Jokers have been found.
Two Fortune Tickets have been found.
A Silent Symbol has been found.
A Tibia Epidermis has been found.
Please choose your destination.
Cette fois-ci je pars devant, on se retrouve plus loin. Fais bien attention à
toi.
Three pieces of Abaddon's meat have been found.
Two Expirations have been found.
A Yoshihiro Bat has been found.
A Tuesday has been found.
The Grand Spectral has been found.
The endgame is near, my friend. I believe what's floating behind you is the
final save point. Perhaps it would be wise to record your progress one last
time... Before you enter that door... And face the Queen. He he he. Now, the
time has come for you to spend the golden fruits of your carnage. "Bis Vincit,
Qui Se Vincit In Victoria"
Are you sure you want to enter?
It's inanimate.
I don't like this place very much. It's a good thing that Papa is here. Today we
played together. He gave me a comic. He told me that I was ill, so I take pills.
I don't like the pills.
Papa said that we'll go play outside tomorrow.
Take the calendar sheet? A Calendar Page has been found.
The door is open ->
The Room?
The Tall Mister?
The Big Mister?
The bird?
Mama? She's not here.
Mama?
Hey, be careful, it is dangerous around here. Do not go near that cliff, you
could fall and hurt yourself. Take good care of yourself.
What is that under your arm? Is it a book? It looks really interesting, I say.
Take good care of it.
What? A big mister, stuck in a hole? I have better things to do than listen to
such silly nonsense.
What is that under your arm? Is it a book? What? A big mister, stuck in a hole?
Calm down, I do not understand a bit of what you are telling me... If you hand
me the book, I will agree to go help your friend... Super neat! Well, let us go
see what we can do to help that big mister. Aw, that is too bad; never mind. Be
very careful not to fall. And take good care of your book; it is a precious
object.
Voilà, the big mister is free. We are waiting for you in the cottage, in the
west of the canyon. Meet us down there, and be careful not to fall... A Saturday
has been found.
Finally, somebody, you would think there's nobody left on Earth anymore...
Finally... Either way, I'm glad to see you, my boy. I got bitten by a cow; the
pain is difficult to bear. Also, it has been nine o'clock for a while now. I
don't like that at all. What are you doing here, by the way? This isn't really a
place for you. Ah! No, for God's sake, don't cry... Everything's okay, come on,
calm down. Here, dry your tears with my coat. This is only the beginning, it can
only get better from here. Come now, don't you want to be a nice boy and try and
find something for me? I'd like to know what day it is, since it will have been
today for a long time soon... Won't it?
I was bitten by a cow... It would be better for me to stay here and rest. Don't
you want to be a dear and go look what date it is today somewhere?
Hey, that's a calender page, right? Give it here! ... Actually, it doesn't
really matter. It isn't that day anymore anyway, I suppose. Your mother? Don't
worry, she'll come back soon. She just went to see the new world. She is a very
important person, you know. Once she is back, she will restart all of this,
everything will work again. We will rebuild everything with the power of our
bare hands. No exhaustion shall stop us! We will be the builders of the future.
It's going to be good, you'll see! We'll ride a pedalo together. Have you ridden
a pedalo before? Bah, it's great, you'll see. Here, take this in the meantime. I
don't think I will need it anymore. Thank you for the calendar. A book with an
unreadable title has been found. A Wednesday has been found.
Are you alright? You look better than before, that's good. Don't worry about me,
I just need a little rest.
It's nine o'clock.
The future only waits if we trace it, and only our arms and our endeavors will
make it a haven on earth.
I promised you cake, and I will keep my promises; you will be swimming in an
ocean of candy soon!
No worry shall reign in my kingdom, for I will wipe the tears off the faces of
my subjects.
Hehe, thank you, boy. I see we can count on you. Thank you for the book; in
these times of misery, it is a very precious treasure. Hahaha. What a clever
little rascal we have here! Maybe we could keep you company while you wait for
your mother... We can talk about the weather, about the world, and about fate.
Perhaps we will even dare already sketch out the maps for the countries that
will be ours... What do you think, little one? A future where everyone of us
will be the guardian of a universal happiness! Where every man will have work to
do and actively participate in maintaining harmony. Where you may dream of a
happier life at any moment, and where our sons can feel the same hope we do. Of
course, you do not understand much of this grown-up talk... Perhaps you will
have fast forgotten this handful of words, the first stars of light in the shade
of the world. So, go on out. Have fun. Make the most of this new land which will
soon be reborn from its still warm ashes. You don't have time to lose to the
lyrical remarks of three crazy utopists. Ahahaha... A Secret day has been found.
Hehe, hey, little one, I'm stuck...... can you help me get out of here? ...... I
suppose not. If you go look for someone to help me, I'll make you some cake! It
will be delicious, you'll see. And we'll tell each other jokes. Go find help, I
beg you.
Don't stay here looking at me like that... Go find help, please, I'll make you
some cake!
Eh! You, down there, come closer!
Hello mama. Papa left. I don't like him anyways. I hope you'll be back soon. I
made three friends today. The tall mister told me that he'd take me to ride a
pedalo, and that we'd all work together to build the world. The little bird told
me that he'd show me the sky and the clouds, and that I wouldn't have to be
scared ever again. The big mister told me he'd make me some cake. Today was a
good day. ... I would like you to come back soon. 
Hello. How are you today? Tell me a random number... Bravo, that's totally
right. No... That's not it...
Very well, let's try another one... Bravo, that's perfect. Here, take this,
you've done well. The Sagittarius-card has been found. No... That's not it... I
don't have any more riddles for you.
A Perfect Symbol has been found.
Papa gave me a music box today.
I have the impression that this is important...
What day is it today? No. You're not paying attention! Yes! That's it, bravo.
Here, take this as a reward. A Mysterious Symbol has been found. No. You're not
paying attention! No. You're not paying attention!
We can't play this game again until tomorrow.
At which station can I find metal in the stomach of cattle? Yes! That's it,
bravo. Here, take this as a reward. An Aura of Power has been found. No. You're
not paying attention! No. You're not paying attention! No. You're not paying
attention!
Which of these books can you not read at the library? No. You're not paying
attention! No. You're not paying attention! Yes! That's it, bravo. Here, take
this as a reward. The Eigth Colour has been found. No. You're not paying
attention!
Can you give me the secret code to the warehouse? No. You're not paying
attention! No. You're not paying attention! No. You're not paying attention!
Yes! That's it, bravo. Here, take this as a reward. A Bleeding Symbol has been
found.
This panel can be pushed into the ground...
"The centaur with the bow will be the mount of the one who seeks the exit."
Something isn't working here...
Today, papa gave me a comic. But I want to go out and play. I hate this place.
I'm sure mom will pick me up.
Today, mom finally picked me up.
It's... an old comic... Read it?
... This is really stupid.
No, I'm not reading that.
Boxxer What a beautiful day. Boxxer Ballville is at peace today. Boxxer Let's
hope that nothing bad happens to spoil the magical blue of this glorious sky.
Ballman Ahaha, you're not taking my diabolical genius into account! Ballman ...
And my new invention! The cloning machine! Ballman I filled Ballville with
replicas of my evil self! You can't stop us now, Boxxer! Ballman Oh and I also
kidnapped your girlfriend. Boxxer Oh no. Boxxer Maybe it isn't such a good day
after all... Mission #64. - - - - - - - - - Clear Ballville of all the evil
clones of Ballman! Quick!
Boxxer Ooh la la, what a mess! Boxxer I'd better hurry.
Boxxer Whoopsiedaisies, this is a real invasion! Ballman Ahaha, Boxxer, this is
the end for you! Vigilante my ass! Ballman Even for a superhero, this task is
impossible! Ballman You've never had a chance of success! Boxxer No! ... Daisy! 
The first thing she said was You are finally here, Batter. Long has been the
wait for your arrival. But your way was in vain; you will only cause
embarrassment here. Go back home. Always keeping his icy confidence, the Batter
replied That's what I did. This cradle is the home of my father. The guardians
have fallen. You are Queen of a kingdom that no longer exists. Surprised, but
not at all disconcerted, she asked him Why have you destroyed the land that I
had rebuilt? The answer was simple You've never been here to do such a thing.
Your role was to take care of him, and you have failed your task. And because of
you, I must now complete my sacred mission. Forcing their monotonous dialogue
despite the Batter's attacks, the Queen explained her actions as such I have
created all of this only for him. I desire nothing more than the happiness of my
children. Lost in preparing the birthday party, you forget who it was for. This
final retort completely eroded the patience of the Queen You have spoilt the
carnival, Batter. I will not let you lay a hand on the son who brought us into
the world. Today, you will fall. That was very irresponsible on your part,
Batter. I made a big cake for the party tonight... Would you like some coffee,
my love? Queen of the flies, it is time to join your disciples. Nothing went
right, we must forget it all and dream sweet dreams now. Look, he has your
eyes... However, his show fear.
... I'm here.... I'm... scared of the dark... From now on, there will be no more
darkness.
Stop right there, you impostor. To say that I had placed the blindest
confidence, the solidest hope, the sincerest belief in you. We can well say that
I was led terribly astray. But the one who has truly betrayed us lies beyond the
eye of the cat. What have you done, [entered name]? Is the obscuring mist of the
narrative really your excuse for killing woman and child? You have not purified
this place; you have destroyed, eradicated it. You have plunged it into a
sterile nothingess. It's better like that. I should not have lent you my hand;
From the beginning of the piece, I should have detected the black flame that
consumes your soul. [entered name], join me. Expiate the sins of which we are
guilty by preventing this monster from completing his work. Don't do that, I
need you in order to purify this world. The time has now come to render your
final and futile verdict.
... Too bad for you, [entered name], you will die in control of your evil
marionette. It is time for you to bid farewell to what little you have left of
your existence. This is... It's over. Escaping from your purpose is impossible.
Your demented crusade ends here. Die, Batter, with the eternal souvenir of not
having conducted your sad scheme to its unjust end. It's too late. Everything is
lost. I know, but I prefer this over your victory. Nothing remains now except
for our regrets.
That choice was, even though pathetically useless, I think, the right one. And
now, Batter, taste our vindictive thirst for pointless justice. Your demented
crusade ends here. Die, Batter, with the eternal souvenir of not having
conducted your sad scheme to its unjust end. It's too late. Everything is lost.
I know, but I prefer this over your victory. Nothing remains now except for our
regrets. This is... It's over. Escaping from your purpose is impossible.
The switch is currently ON The switch is now OFF You have the Aries-card! You
have unlocked the game's true ending.
You have the Aries-card! You have unlocked the game's true ending.
Meanwhile, in a parallel dimension... Ratatam, ratatam, ratatam!! We are the
space apes! Everything happened just as we've foreseen! Now that the world is
completely white thanks to [entered name], we can finally build our giant, evil
robot factory! And then we can defeat our life-long nemesis, the flying brains
from planet Aurus! Ha ha ha ha ha!!

